STAR -> Situation Task Action Result

Scenario1: Enhance the file upload code

Situation: We have to upload file in few test cases. We handled the automation using Robot class since selenium can not able to interact with window dialog.

Task: Handling with Robot class is very flaky and not recommened for parallel excution. I was asked to implement better solution

Action: I have explored and talk to the community experts, i came to know that File Upload can be done using sendKeys() when the element is having "input" tag and type="file" as attribute. In our application file upload is meeting these criteria. 

Result: File upload using sendKeys() is very stable and now we can execute the test cases in parallel mode as well

-------------------------------------------------------

Scenario2: Stale Element Reference Exception

Situation: While automating 400+ tests and running them using Selenium Grid, I noticed several tests failing with Stale Element Reference exception and this caused lot of rework in the test automation project. 

Task: Have to find the rootcause of this problem and fix it [Not having deeper understanding] !! 

Root Cause: When the element was looked for its presence by findElement, the element was there. But it got disappeared, when you were about to interact with the element - sendKeys, click, clear !! 

Action: 

Option 1) Either add  Thread.sleep statement before find the element [How long?]
Best Option) Whenever there is stale element reference exception, find the element again !! 

try{
driver.findElement(by.id(username));
}
catch(){
thread.sleep(3000)
driver.findElement(by.id(username));
Result:

This solved most of the common failures and the test automation results were helpful to speed up the testing efforts !! You are awarded 'STAR Award' !!

-------------------------------------------------------

Scenario3: Enhance framework with dynamic test data

Situation: We are using Excel to keep the data. Which is providing static data to the test cases. Client has raised this a concern as data whatever we create using automation looks like junk data in data base

Task: I was asked to implement dynamic data for the test cases

Action: I have explored APIs and libraries to dynamic data  and implemented faker one of the java library. Faker is very simple and easy to implement in our framework. 

Result: Data created using Faker is dynamic and looks like real data.



4) Xpath Challenges due to dynamic application changes

Situation: XPath keep breaking to dynamic element introduction or deletion in the given page or back of the screen

Task: Find a common approach that can solve changing DOM element causing failures

Action: Built an XPath based on unqiue screen or window name and from there -> traverse to the label denoting the element -> and then traverse to the exact element by its index helped to solve these dynamic changing problems / Used Chrome extensions like Ruto to assist on XPath auto generation

Result: Saved lot of time and saved the script from failing changing DOM elements



5) Chrome browser updates and driver compatibility 

Bonus) Dropdown without select tags

Situation: In my application, many dropdowns do not have select tag and hence i cannot use selectBy Method and hence challenged to automate

Task: Find a working approach to automate these look-like dropdowns

Action:

1) Click on the dropdown icon and that can load the options
2) Then click on the expected option


Result:

Able to automate non-select also like a select !!


